	@(#)ABSTRACT	4.2 94/05/16

This abstract describes two collections of UNIX C functions, LIBTOOLS
and LIBIPC, which are now available for non-commercial purposes under a
no-fee license from the National Center for Atmospheric Research in
Boulder, Colorado.

LIBTOOLS contains C functions which manipulate basic data structures
and perform C-shell-like string parsing and escape sequence
translation.

LIBIPC contains C functions which implement session and presentation
interprocess communication layers.  The session layer is built upon
Berkeley stream sockets, but could be changed to use other IPC
mechanisms with a little effort.

The sources can be accessed as compressed tar files via anonymous
binary-mode FTP from ftp.ucar.edu (128.117.64.4) in the directory
tagslib. Each tar file includes a LICENSE, a README file, a Makefile,
UNIX man pages, and C sources. The software includes no source code
licensed from other organizations. All source code is copyrighted by
the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research, which reserves all
rights. As the license stipulates, UCAR in no way warrants or supports
the software. NCAR is making this software available in the hopes that
it will save someone a little work in the future.

LIBTOOLS and LIBIPC were developed to support the NCAR Text And
Graphics Server (TAGS), a distributed output production system.
However, some care was taken to design the functions to be reusable in
other projects. The software has been in production in TAGS for over a
year. The tested platforms include the following.

	SMI Sun-4	SunOS 4.1		In production
	SMI Sun-3	SunOS 4.0		Compiled and tested
	DEC VAX 8550	Ultrix-32 V3.0		Compiled and tested
	IBM 370/4381	AIX/370 1.2		Compiled and tested
	IBM RS6000/530	AIX 3.1			Compiled and tested
	HP 9000/720	HP-UX A.B8.05		Compiled and tested

The only known portability issues involve assumptions regarding pointer
casts and alignment. Users of ANSI C compliant compilers may wish to
uncomment the argument declarations embedded in the function prototype
declarations in the header files.

Examples of function modules in LIBTOOLS -

nextparser:	parses words from a file or a buffer in a C-shell-like
		manner, interpreting comments, continuation lines, and
		two flavors of quotes.
transliterate:	implements a push-down automata on top of which
		table driven parsers can be built.
escapes:        expands and collapses C-shell-style escape sequences.
atoargv:        converts a string into an argument vector.
lists:          manipulates singly linked FIFO linear structures.
queues:         manipulates doubly linked linear structures.
trees:          manipulates binary trees.
parcel:         manipulates a binary tree of keyword and value pairs.
stringmgr:	manages a pool of fixed length string buffers.

Examples of function modules in LIBIPC -

ipc:		establishes a session connection with another process.
messages:	passes messages containing parcels through an ipc
		connection.
eg:		contains a collection of programs which demonstrate
		the use of the ipc and messages layers.

Inventory	Modules		Functions	Lines
LIBTOOLS	85		153		~6700
LIBIPC		61		109		~4900

-----
John Sloan
jsloan@ncar.ucar.edu
NCAR/SCD, P. O. Box 3000, Boulder CO 80307 USA
